docs: update address-ipfs-on-web.md (#1682)
ipfs/ipfs-docs: docs/how-to/address-ipfs-on-web.md

   ```shell
   https://<cid>.ipfs.<gateway-host>/<path> 
   ```
   
3. Native protocol handlers, when you don't want to hard-code a specific HTTP gateway in the URI:

   ```shell
   ipfs://<cid>/<path>
   ```
   
   ```shell
   ipns://<ipns-name>/<path>
   ```

## HTTP gateways

HTTP gateways allow tools that "speak" HTTP but do not speak "IPFS" to communicate. They are the first stage of the upgrade path for the web. [More information about IPFS Gateways](../concepts/ipfs-gateway.md). 

One downside of HTTP gateways is centralization. Location-based addressing of a gateway depends on both DNS and HTTPS/TLS, which relies on trust in [certificate authorities](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Certificate_authority) (CAs) and [public key infrastructure](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Public_key_infrastructure) (PKI). In the long term, these issues should be mitigated by the use of opportunistic protocol upgrade schemes.

### Protocol upgrade

Long term, deserialized responses returned by a public HTTP gateway are used only as a fallback when no native implementation of IPFS is available.

> IPFS clients, user agents, tools and extensions should detect CIDs in URLs, DNSlinks or IPFS content paths and resolve them directly over the IPFS protocol. This ensures that the retrieved data matches the expected hash. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
IPFS clients, user agents, tools and extensions should detect CIDs in URLs, DNSLinks or IPFS content paths and resolve them directly over the IPFS protocol. This ensures that the retrieved data matches the expected hash. 
```

# Address IPFS on the web

How to link to content on IPFS with HTTP URL:

```shell
https://ipfs.io/ipfs/<CID>
# e.g
https://ipfs.io/ipfs/bafybeihkoviema7g3gxyt6la7vd5ho32ictqbilu3wnlo3rs7ewhnp7lly
```

Clients that support IPFS can ignore HTTP details and retrieve data natively, while those that don't can fetch the resource from HTTP server at `ipfs.io` gateway.

> Thanks to CID, one can swap out `ipfs.io` for [self-hosted local gateway](https://docs.ipfs.io/install/). When `ipfs.io` or any other [public gateway](https://ipfs.github.io/public-gateway-checker/) goes down, IPFS aware clients will still be able to fetch the content from the IPFS network as long as at least one node still provides the data behind the CID to the network.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
CIDs allow you to swap out `ipfs.io` for a [self-hosted local gateway](https://docs.ipfs.io/install/). When `ipfs.io` or any other [public gateway](https://ipfs.github.io/public-gateway-checker/) goes down, IPFS-compatible clients will still be able to fetch the content from the IPFS network as long as there is at least one node that still provides the data.
```

:::

The first element after the double slash is an identifier representing the content root. It is interpreted as an authority component used for origin calculation, which provides necessary isolation between security contexts of different content trees.

Example:

```plaintext
ipfs://bafybeiemxf5abjwjbikoz4mc3a3dla6ual3jsgpdr4cjr3oz3evfyavhwq/wiki/Vincent_van_Gogh.html
```

::: warning Avoid case-sensitive CID 
Some user agents will force-lowercase the CID component of URL-like address.

> To ensure interopability with existing libraries and software, use case-insensitive CID encoding. Use of CIDv1 in Base32 or Base36 is advised.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To ensure interoperability with existing libraries and software, use case-insensitive CID encoding. Use of CIDv1 in Base32 or Base36 is advised.
```
